Canonical is a leading provider of open source software and operating systems to the global enterprise and technology markets. Our platform, Ubuntu, is very widely used in breakthrough enterprise initiatives such as public cloud, data science, AI, engineering innovation, and IoT. Our customers include the world's leading public cloud and silicon providers, and industry leaders in many sectors. The company is a pioneer of global distributed collaboration, with 1200+ colleagues in 75+ countries and very few office-based roles. Teams meet two to four times yearly in person, in interesting locations around the world, to align on strategy and execution.

The company is founder-led, profitable, and growing.

We are hiring a Software Engineer to develop, test and release improvements to the Ubuntu on public clouds. 

The quality and stability of the Ubuntu is critically important, since it's available on every public cloud. You’ll work with teams across Canonical working on Ubuntu team, alongside major cloud partners to develop, test and release improvements to the Ubuntu cloud images. You will also be a voice in communication with our users, ensuring their needs are met.

This role requires quality-oriented software engineering in Python and a focus on software interoperability over a vast range of target releases and environments. Excellent Python skills are a key requirement, with previous contributions to open source Python projects being an advantage. This role involves creating and managing Ubuntu images; therefore, experience in configuring apt, and knowledge of deb packaging and general system administration is advantageous in this role.

Applicants should be passionate about the Ubuntu project and its values and about building tools that are used by millions of people around the world. A personal interest and emphasis on quality, thinking of edge cases, ease of use, documentation, and careful community coordination is important. Ubuntu is used for all kinds of users, from mission-critical environments to hobbyist Ubuntu users; applicants should be ready to work with the whole spectrum of end users and help guide engineering best practices with all of them in mind.

The role entails
Collaborate proactively with a distributed team
Write high quality code, with unit and functional tests, to create new features
Debug issues and produce high quality code to fix them
Review code produced by other engineers
Discuss ideas and investigate to find good solutions
Work from home, with global travel 2 to 4 weeks per year for internal and external events
What we are looking for in you
You love technology and working with brilliant people
You are curious, flexible, articulate, and accountable
You value soft skills and are passionate, enterprising, thoughtful, and self-motivated
You have a Bachelor’s or equivalent in Computer Science, STEM or similar degree
You have extensive experience with Python on Linux
You have interest in and experience with two or more of the following: Ubuntu Linux systems administration, continuous integration, end-system contract management, Debian packaging, working with public or on premise clouds
Bonus points if you have experience engaging with the open source community
What we offer colleagues
We consider geographical location, experience, and performance in shaping compensation worldwide. We revisit compensation annually (and more often for graduates and associates) to ensure we recognize outstanding performance. In addition to base pay, we offer a performance-driven annual bonus or commission. We provide all team members with additional benefits which reflect our values and ideals. We balance our programs to meet local needs and ensure fairness globally.

Distributed work environment with twice-yearly team sprints in person
Personal learning and development budget of USD 2,000 per year
Annual compensation review
Recognition rewards
Annual holiday leave
Maternity and paternity leave
Team Member Assistance Program & Wellness Platform
Opportunity to travel to new locations to meet colleagues
Priority Pass and travel upgrades for long-haul company events
About Canonical
Canonical is a pioneering tech firm at the forefront of the global move to open source. As the company that publishes Ubuntu, one of the most important open-source projects and the platform for AI, IoT, and the cloud, we are changing the world of software. We recruit on a global basis and set a very high standard for people joining the company. We expect excellence; in order to succeed, we need to be the best at what we do. Most colleagues at Canonical have worked from home since our inception in 2004.​ Working here is a step into the future and will challenge you to think differently, work smarter, learn new skills, and raise your game.

Canonical is an equal opportunity employer

We are proud to foster a workplace free from discrimination. Diversity of experience, perspectives, and background create a better work environment and better products. Whatever your identity, we will give your application fair consideration.

#LI-remote

Requisition ID: 722

